The better way is to skip the calculator. Program the steps to create an ideal sample, and price your question automatically. The Answer Key is a method to build a robust sample repeatedly and quickly without human effort.
Initially you need to create a dataset. Each vector or comma separated file csv file) row represents one game. The pregame spread, pregame total, and final home and away scores are used in selecting the sample. Other pieces of data (for example, first-half spread outcome, or whether either team scored three consecutive times) are attached to that datapoint for analysis, but not for indexing. Standard databases include betting spreads and totals, as well as scoring by quarter. If you want more exotic data points (like true/false for does the team that scores first win, or are there three consecutive scores), you will have to develop a database using play by play statistics or drive charts and link those attributes to your game datapoint.
Using whatever programming language you choose, the steps to analyzing a single game are:
1.    Identify the parent spread and total, including vigorish.
2.    Index every game in your database to reflect how well that game matches up to the parent line.
3.    Sort your database, putting the games that best match up to your parent line first, and the worst ones last.
4.    Pick your sample size. I typically go with 500 at the start.
5.    Build a sample. This will initially be the first 500 games after
the sort.

 at your sample's mean spread and total. If your men is too low, increase your target by the difference. Similark. the target for your spread. Repeat step 5 with the adjusted e spread and totals until your sample's mean is acceptable might end up using a target spread of 30 to end up with a n spread of 27.
1.    Measure your sample's median compared to the parent line.
2.    Repeat the next three steps until your sample's median spread an total is acceptably close to your original target's spread and to
*    Remove a game from the sample that will improve it, if po sible. Start the search at the 500th game and work upwa (since 500 was the "worst" active game in your sample.
*    Add one game that is not in the sample that will improve Start the search at game 501 and work downward (since 50), was the best game similar to your parent line that was no included).
*    Is your revised sample acceptably close? If not, repeat step and continue improving.
Let us look at each step a little closer:
The parent-line. If your parent spread is +3-120/-3 +100, Jou convert the moneyline into a win percentage. The implied win tate of
-120 is -120/(-120 -100) or 54.5%. The implied win rate of +100 is
100/(100 + 100) = 50%. To convert these into a no-juice number, ir
divide by the overage. An ideal sample will cover + 3 at a rate of 54.5/ (54.5 + 50) = 52.1%
I like to use a Pythagorean distance formula to create a quality indes for each game. While the original use of the Pythagorean theorem was to calculate the length of the hypotenuse in a right angle triangle, it can also tell you the distance between two two-dimensional coor-dinates. In a right angle triangle with sides of lengths X and X, the
length of the longer diagonal hypotenuse Z = V(X2 + Y). If one has
two coordinates (X1, Y1) and (X2, Y2), you can calculate the distance
Z between those two by assigning X = X1-X2, and Y = Y1-Y2 with
that equation.

When selecting samples, we measure the distance of a possible game from the target game we are analyzing. The better the spread and total match up, the lower the distance index. I ignore the moneyline pricing of the indexes-when I will treat a game that is +3 -110 the same as +3-115 the same when indexing, Ignoring this aspect makes almost no difference (and in fact, this method is fairly resilient to spreads being off it will work using non-sharp closers). If you like, you could convert spreads and totals with their vigorish into scalars without vigorish-if I thought the NFL "3" pushed at a rate of 9%, that +3 -115 no-vig game might convert to 3.13. The gain from this extra work is marginal though. The median result is much more important than whether parts of the sample are off a half or quatter point. When indexing, you need to scale your spread and total (or moneyline and total if moneylines are the dominant market as in MLB). The scaling does not need to be exact, but you do not want to be off by a factor of 50% (or ignore it if it matters). In NFL, most spreads are in the range of -7 to +10. Most totals are in the range of 39-56. Both of these have common ranges of 17, so I use the same scale for both spreads and totals.
If my target were +3/total 44, and I had a game at +3.5/45, the Pythagorean square index would be (3.5 - 3)? + (45 - 44)}, or 1.25. If you like, you can take the square root of that, but that extra step will not change the sorting, so I skip it.
If this were an MLB problem, I might consider that most totals
were 7-11, and most win percentages were from p = 0.35 to 0.7. If
the range of totals was about 4, and the range of win percentages was about 0.35, I would want to scale the moneylines at a factor of 11 or 12 compared to the total (as the common range of totals is about 12 times as much as the range of win percentages). If my target game had
P = 0.6 (equivalent to a no-vig moneyline of -150) and a total of 8, and
I were indexing a game at 0.58 and 7.5, and I used a moneyline scale
of 12, the index would be [(0.6 - 0.58) * 1212 + (8 - 7.5)2 = 0.3076.
If you do not use scaling, you will effectively ignore all games with a different MLB total. If your target is 0.6/7.5, I would rather use 0.6/8 than 0.3/7.5. Scaling allows you to prioritize your sample that way.

IF you have 20,000 games, you have indexed all of these, Now, you sort them, with the smallest distance indexes first, and the largest indexes last. At 20,000 games, which is a fairly typical dataset, you do not want to use a bubble sort. Buck up and implement a quickson (quicksort is an algorithm that sorts giant piles of data using multiple pivots. It is easy to find the source for this online for free).
Five hundred was somewhat of an arbitrary number for me. I wan the largest sample I can get, but I also need the sample to be small enough relative to my dataset that I gain information. A 20,000 dataset means I am using up to 2.5% of the data on each sample. If I had a larger dataset, I would increase the sample size. As my dataset shrinks, so will my sample, but not quite as fast. If I had a 5,000 sample, I might use a sample of 250.
With the sorted database, I have a flag (or column) called "included" Is this game part of my sample I am analyzing? Initially, only the first 500 games after the sort will be included, and the remainder will be excluded.
When I assess my initial sample, how close is it to my target? If I want a sample where the underdog that covers +3.5 exactly 50% of the time, but my sample actually covers 54%, I have cover error of 4%. If my sample is 500 games, that means I had 270 covers, and
230 non-covers. The difference is 40. If I remove 20 games that cov-ered, and add 20 games that do not cover, I will have 250 covers, 250 non-covers, and a sample that exactly matches my target. I could also add 40 non-covers or remove 40 covers. Whatever method I use to correct it, I have about 40 adjustments to make to my sample. I do a similar analysis on the total. How many adjustments do I need to make on the total? If the over covered 52% of the time when I desired it to be 50%, I would need to make 20 adjustments.
I am going to remove a single game from my sample to make it closer to the parent line. If my initial sample had the underdog covering too much, and it is going over too much, the first game I remove should be where the underdog covers, and/ or the game went over. You search your sample of included games, starting at 500 (never remove a game you added later) and working upward towards 1. You want to find the "worst" game to remove. From our sorting algorithm, game #1 is the best match, and 500th is the worst in our original sample. When you find a game, you change its flag from included to excluded. If the game improved your spread-fit, you reduce the cover adjustment required (here from 40 to 39 in the first pass). If it improved your total, you reduce the total adjustment required (from 20 to 19 in the first pass).
If you did not find a game you could remove to improve your sampie, note that killing games failed to help.
Next, you are going to add a single game to the sample to make it closer to the parent line. Because my original sample had the underdog covering too much (at +39 so far on the first pass), and the over covering too much (at +19 so fat on the first pass), I want to add a game where the home favorite covered, and that went under. I start searching at game 501, which is the best game I did not include in the original sample. When I find a game (where the included flag is still set to false, I add it to the sample. I set the flag to true, I adjust my underdog covering too much from +39 to +38, and I adjust the over covering too much from +19 to +18. If you failed to find a game that you could add to the sample that improved it, note that adding games failed Review my sample. Is it good enough? +38/+18 is nowhere neat good enough. I typically want to be within +/-1 on both spreads (or moneylines) and totals. If I noted that both adding and killing games failed, I cannot improve this sample? You can either accept the sample or restart the procedure looking for a smaller sample. If it is good enough—+/-1 means you are within 0.2% of your target, you can begin the analysis!

When you run The Answer Key algorithm on a dataset, it gives a way to count outcomes. This approach has two huge advantages ov how most sportsbooks attack any sort of problem. First, it does not u regressions it uses actual data. Regressions give terrible answers in many spots. Regressions are especially bad in outcomes that are non-no mal, like anything football spread-related or scoring related. Regression treat moving from 4.5 to 5.5 the same as moving from 2.5 to 3.5. Who you have a dataset of games that is similar to what you are analyzing you skip the whole regression, and just count. A sample of just 500 wi be less than perfect, but usually within a few percent. Second, your fixed sample is much closer to reality than any non-fixed sample an analyse will use. In the teaser example I discussed earlier, our sample for a teaser analysis will be very close to 50%, whereas the sample in that teaser problem covered 55% adding a monstrous 5% base error.
The Answer Key algorithm is just a lot of small pieces put together.
Collectively it has beaten sharp books out there on derivatives, and laid waste to recreational sportsbooks. Answer Key is the method I used to quickly price 1000s of derivatives to put into maniacal round-robin parlays.
I wrote Answer Key in Lazarus Pascal, and it can price perhaps a million markets in under a minute. Python will do an adequate job although much more slowly. When you weaponize Answer Key, think carefully about how you implement it—C# and Pascal are extremely fast. You cannot have calculation speed be a performance bottleneck when assaulting sportsbooks. Whatever solution you pursue, it needs to handle the whole betting card with whatever markets and sports-books you attack in seconds, not minutes.